Past literature:

"Investing in Art: the Informational Content of Italian Painting Pre-Sale Estimates" (Bruno & Nocera 2008)
    Question: how helpful are presale estimates?
    (1) Presale estimates are not good predictors of final sale prices. (2) When Italian paintings are auctioned in Italy, uncertainty/accuracy of presale estimates decreases/increases. "Country effect." (3) Informational content of presale estimates is affected by past prices ("anchoring").

"Failing to meet the reserve price: the impact on returns to art" (Beggs & Graddy 2008)
    Studies heavily advertised paintings that fail to meet reserve price ("burned"). Shows that heavily advertised paintings that fail return significantly less in the future
    than non-advertised paintings.

"Anchoring Effects: Evidence from Art Auctions" (Beggs & Graddy 2009)
    Finds strong support for anchoring effects on the part of buyers. Tests anchoring effects on sale prices, presale estimates, and probability of sale.
    (anchoring: past price affects current price beyond hedonic prediction)

"Loss Aversion? What Loss Aversion? Some Surprising Evidence from the Art Market" (Mei et al. 2010)
    Uses Mei-Moses art database.
    Loss aversion is not an important phenomenon in the art market, do not see expected behavior.

"Does the sun 'shine' on art prices?" (De Silva et al. 2012)
    Variation in mood, proxied by the weather, weakly affects art prices (esp. the lower end of the price distribution).

"Sentiment and Art Prices" (Penasse, Renneboog, and Spaenjers 2014)
    Sentiment (e.g. confidence levels for artwork) drives short-term returns.

"Bubbles and trading frenzies: evidence from the art market" (Penasse & Renneboog 2014)
    In the art market: (1) sales volume is driven primarily by speculative transactions, (2) positive price-volume correlation is pervasive across
    price movements, (3) volume predicts negative long-run returns

"Anchoring or Loss Aversion? Empirical Evidence from Art Auctions" (Graddy et al. 2014)
    Anchoring effects are stronger for items that are resold quickly. As people hold paintings longer, they become less scared of losing money (decreased loss aversion).

"Ordering, revenue, and anchoring in art auctions" (Hong et al. 2015)
    Question: Does the order in which paintings are sold (esp. by value) affect prices?
    Sotheby's, Christie's alternate who goes first.
    When house with more expensive paintings goes first, more paintings sell, and that week's sale premium is significantly higher than the mean.

"Uncertainty, Disagreement and Expert Price Estimates in Art Markets" (Vosilov 2015)
    Expert art estimates positively affect realized art prices. 

"What Drives the Chinese Art Market? The Case of Elegant Bribery" (Guo)
    Lists some hedonic characteristics that are identified as strong indicators of price (e.g. size, signature, oil paintings).
        - size of work (to certain extent)
        - presence of signature / other signs of authenticity
        - prestige of work's provenance (how, where, why was created)
        - rarity in terms of medium, style, subject matter
        - involvement in major exhibitions or publications
        NOTE: creation date / topic of artwork is not necessarily important, since tastes may vary over time.
    Significant artist characteristics that positively impact price:
        - historical significance of artist
        - participation of artist in major exhibitions
        - prestige of gallery that represents the artist
        - popularity of subject material that the artist specializes in at time of creation
        also important: nationality of artist, artistic style of artist.
    Significant auction house characteristics: prestige of house; location of sale; time of sale; ordering of lots; etc.

"Precision of the anchor influences the amount of adjustment" (Janiszewski & Uy 2008)
    If anchor is specific ($799,382) people adjust less; if anchor is more general ($800,000) people adjust in higher increments.

Paintings and numbers: an econometric investigation of sales rates, prices, and returns in Latin American art auctions