
Key insights from Raphaelle Benabou interview.

raphaelle - basic view of anchoring, from art standpoint.
started off as french major -> art history
did african, ancient chinese, contemporary, impressionist ... all kinds of art
museums - good but slow process amassing the right collection, planning, fundraising, etc.
same works - 2 years
auctions - high turnover, esp. int'l auction house that covers different areas.

intern for 9 months @ bonham's in impressionist 
got opportunity in valuations - think of depts like chinese art, impressionist, but rather RB handles
people who come to bonhams, "how do I handle taxes? Get stuff insured? ..."
also deal with private collections
e.g. if you have picasso, will list your works for sale
last sale - grand english country homes, etc.
4:50
"single owner sales" -
marketing strategies

bonham's - pretty big auction house, int'l, not as big as Sotheby's / Christie's
bonhams - probably below or around Phillips
deal with insurance companies, etc.
when was in impressionist dept - would get handed screwdriver, unframe a Dugard - 
crazy getting to deal with those things
valuations - they source stuff. e.g. someone comes to valuations w/jewelry or vase, give to 
other depts.
RB: gets to see lots of jewelrey, cars, other categories
Bonhams - known for cars sales. record for most expensive car or ferrari

What do you look for when you see a painting / piece of art?
"i have a picasso" -> only 1 person in dept would handle
doing research on work.
first to ask:
(1) has this been sold before? been in museum? has it been sold before,
in exhibition, how'd you come to own it? (provenance)
need to make sure it's not faked, very easy to fake a picasso etc. 
chances are, if it's been in a museum etc. then it's authentic.
9:40
antiques in syria - islamic depts are flooded with stuff, but 
hard to tell how got out of syria (e.g. illegally?)
best thing is to have something that's definitely real, but 
never been sold before -> "fresh", though provenance helps to legitimize 
a work. e.g. banksy only sells through gallery "pest control" but if work
is not through that gallery, basically useless.
(2) check to make sure looks right, good history ...
(3) basic physical checks.
condition?
been restored?
relined? (canvas gets weak so add another canvas underneath)
vase - glued back together?
less that is done to art piece - the better
contemporary paint - turns up white under ultraviolet (UV) light
so use UV light
people want things as they are - not retouched
the closer you can get to original state, the better
interesting - e.g. painting by magritte, had been completely 
covered in shiny glaze -> very difficult, expensive procedure (use acid) to
remove from painting.
from here, gets more diverse.

size - always important
medium

oil almost always more expensive than pencil sketch
if size too big - people get intimidated (where will I put this)

certain artists - 
e.g. some people prefer dugah's pastels to oil paintings.
so can be different.
condition, provenance, authenticity comes afterwards (or could be done already).

nebulous "style" / "subject matter"
e.g. pre-war, post-war distinctions
gets very specific - dugarte, ballerina scenes, etc.
people may want very specfic subject matter from artists (e.g. ballerinas if buy dugarte)

not sure if all do but probably do,
definitely @ bonhams':
one person does research on all this stuff.
if all checks out, then searches for comparable works (going on artinfo, artnet and looking
at works that fit more or less the same categories, same size, medium, subject, obviously artist,
maybe same date) -> find closest possible match, most recent match.
will indicate what you're looking at.
however, anchoring -> you're kinda set.
so only one person does research.
group gets together, person presents information but not price (and says "what do you think?")
everyone -> what their gut feeling says, what they think art is worth etc.
everyone shouts out a price
then person reveals what comparable works have sold for in the last 2-3 years.
e.g. 2 ballerina scenes - this one sold for 1 million, but cleaner lines / bigger, so ours will 
sell for more etc ...
So try to come up with all these factors based on past factors.
-> form the presale estimates.

every work is unique -> very difficult to value.
10 years ago - certain artists may have been worth more than now.
people leaning toward contemporary nowadays.
tastes do change.
people do get upset - when they come with painting they paid huge sum for,
but now won't sell for a lot.

sellers will often go to multiple auction houses to see - rarely will everyone
give you the same answer. also paying for the name of the auction house - e.g. 
sotheby's might be more confident estimating picasso at $1M, but bonham's maybe at $800K. 
ads, customers, business, etc.
how to compete as smaller auction house:
lowered commission (e.g. 12% or 15% vs. 25%), really focus on your work -> impressionist sale
at bonhams is 60 lots while = 300 at sotheby's.

provenance - if has been in museum, etc.
RB -> had to be library girl, find everything that proved painting was located at X, etc. ....
e.g. if have 60 paintings, 4 months to put together auction -> still hard to do all the provenance homework.
art history @ princeton - analyzing historical factors, etc.
all those historical factors - don't really determine price nowadays (except maybe the top pieces,
e.g. picasso sold @ sotheby's, etc.). that stuff is written up for people to understand value, but rather
academic and people probably don't really read them.
auction world - changing very quickly -> online auctions, art loans, renting art 

people buy more based on size, medium, artist (maybe provenance) - not so much on subject matter,
style and tastes can change and depend on the person.

jewelry - cut, clarity ...

if it fits, it fits - needs certain things to go to auction.
unretouched ...
people always like to know they can resell their art.
if needs work, falling apart, not interesting - how would you do ?

Measure of similarity between art pieces?
Probably artist is very important, hard to compare across.
Provenance is useful and can change the price but isn't the physical thing. 
Size, medium and date 
Tricky for contemporary art. e.g. Fontana (slash canvas with knife, Italian postwar artist)
e.g. two nearly identical canvases, but sold for very different amounts.
value of work - depends if some rich guy was there that day (reflects wealth of the buyer
rather than the inherent value of the work).
If you can, subject can make a big difference.
yves klein - created blue monochromes, wanted to test the art market.
sold blue monochromes for different prices on purpose, wanted to show people how weird art market was.
sold people air and traded it for gold and then threw the gold in the sand.
picasso - can argue things are the same,
but literally the same for yves klein's monochromes

size, medium, date.

(do date if you have time. link for grabbing data works)











